Create focus-order-guidelines.md (#11464)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team: platform/accessibility/common-issues/focus-order-guidelines.md

> # [KEYBOARD]: Focus order MUST be visually and programmatically usable

Reviewer: is this the title of the document?

Author: I changed the document title to match the file name in the commit I'm making in a short.

We build a lot of rich interet applications (RIA) using React, for VA.gov. We often update routes using client-side technology, add and remove HTML fragments, and update interfaces without making page requests to a server.

These type of client-side changes require us to think about focus order. 

- What elements can receive keyboard focus when users press the `TAB` key or the `SHIFT + TAB` chord?
- Are there non-focusable elements that we want to receive keyboard focus?
- Are there elements that need to receive focus when a dynamic event like a data fetch is completed?

> This is a common issue that can be solved with human-centered design and a collaborative effort among design, front-end engineering, and accessibility.

Reviewer: recommendation: invert this section to state the issue first and then the details about this issue

> ## [508-defect-2](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/guidance/defect-severity-rubric.md#508-defect-2)

Reviewer: should a guidelines document link to a specific issue in one of the headings?

Author: In this case I feel it's the right call. Since this is a defect level 2, I want to get users to that reference as quickly as possible

## Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] As a visual, keyboard, or screen reader user, I want to understand the focus order and navigate your web application successfully.
- [ ] As a screen reader user, I want to hear partial page changes or dynamic updates announced properly
- [ ] As a keyboard user, I want focus to be maintained or reset in a predictable way when a dynamic update occurs

## Environment

* Operating System: all
* Browser: all
* Screenreading device: all
* Server destination: all

## Steps to Confirm Current Focus

1. Enter [URL] in browser (Chrome works well)
1. Right click on the page and click `Inspect` to open Chrome dev tools
1. Click `Console` in the Dev Tools palette
1. Type the following snippet into your console to confirm keyboard focus<br/><br/>
    ```javascript
    document.activeElement
    ```

> 1. Ensure focus is in line with design guidance or review with your accessibility specialist

Reviewer 2: "in line" s/b "inline"

Reviewer 3: I believe "in line" is correct in this case.

> 1. Ensure focus is in line with design guidance or review with your accessibility specialist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure focus is aligned with design guidance or review with your accessibility specialist
```

## Possible Fixes (optional)
There are two situations where adding a `tabindex` attribute is preferable: When you need to set focus with JavaScript, or when you need to add a non-focusable element to the document focus order.

### Setting focus with JavaScript

> Our rich applications often require us to update small sections of the page, or use client-side routing to change views. These are both good candidates for setting focus with JavaScript. We do this to help screen readers understand that something has changed on the page, and to avoid extra tab stops for keyboard users. Elements that will receive keyboard focus via scripting must have a `tabIndex="-1"` attribute.

Reviewer 2: In addition to helping screen readers, would it be helpful to note that communicating the context change supports people with cognitive considerations? Since that is such a large part of our audience, I think it underscores the relevance of communicating focus and context change.

> ```html

Reviewer 2: My React foo is 💩 , but I wonder if there's a prop we could add to make it easy for devs to apply this? Do we have the JavaScript in our scripts already, so it only requires activating it?

Author: Come to think of it, we do have a helper function for the `focus()` portion. I'll add that, or at least a reference to it. Good call.

<h2 id="first-heading" tabIndex="-1">This heading will receive focus</h2>
```

```javascript
/*
 * This is a simple DOM example of setting focus through scripting.
 * React applications will usually use the componentDidMount()
 * lifecycle method or useEffect hooks to accomplish this task.
 */

> const target = document.getElementById('first-heading');

Reviewer: this is probably fine but I think in a RIA, the layout should control focus behavior in a centralized way. it's easier to maintain and to see how focus behavior changes as elements are added to / removed from the page.

Author: I refactored this to use our `{ focusElement }` helper method and a proper **import** statement. There's probably a bigger conversation about formalizing this with refs and hooks, but that's outside the scope of a reference doc. LMK if you'd like to review more at another time.

target.focus();
```

### Adding an element to the native focus order

> Sometimes it is preferable to add a non-focusable element to the native focus order without JavaScript. By adding a `tabindex="0"` to an element like a `<div>` or `<p>`, that element can receive keyboard focus when a user tabs to it. These are beneficial when we want keyboard and screen reader users to interact with things like information cards, alert boxes, or status updates.

Reviewer: what is an example of when it is preferable?

Reviewer 2: An example would be on the Facility Locator, when a user enters search criteria, selects Search. Focus is added to the `h2` announcing the search results. Normally, this heading would not receive focus since it isn't a focusable element, it is text.
